README.md, before:

![keyplus](https://rawgit.com/ahtn/keyplus/master/doc/imgs/keyplus_logo.svg)

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/ahtn/keyplus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ahtn/keyplus)

Keyplus aims to be an easy to use keyboard firmware with support for wireless
and wired split keyboards.

Currently in beta so lots of stuff still might change.

# Download

[Stable releases (recommended)](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/releases)

[Latest builds on Keyplus CI](https://ci.keyplus.io/)

# Keyplus Flasher GUI

## Setup instructions

### Windows

Just download the EXE file.

### Linux

Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus
git checkout v0.3.0
```

Next, install the packages `avr-gcc`, `avr-libc`, `avr-binutils`, `python3`, `make`, `hidapi` or `libhidapi-dev`, and `python3-pyqt5`.

Then, install the python dependencies:
```bash
pip install -U --user keyplus
```

Also, you need to initialize the git submodules:

```bash
cd keyplus
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Now, you can run the program:

```bash
cd host-software
sudo python3 keyplus_flasher.py
```

#### Flashing without sudo on Linux

To connect USB devices on Linux without using sudo, you need to add the
appropriate udev rules to set their permissions. To do this run the following
commands from the keyplus directory:

```
sudo cp host-software/etc/udev/rules.d/50-keyplus.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/50-keyplus.rules
sudo udevadm control --reload-rules
sudo udevadm trigger
```

You also will need to unplug and reconnect the USB device you want to use.

## Using the GUI

When starting with a new keyplus mini board, flash the latest firmware, configure the device and RF, and configure the layout, in that order.

### Flashing the firmware

Download the latest firmware from [the releases page](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/releases). In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Firmware Update". Then, click the "Browse" button and select the firmware file you downloaded. Plug in your keyplus mini (or other compatible board), and you should see it appear in the bottom box.

![The box](https://rawgit.com/ahtn/keyplus/master/doc/imgs/box.png)

Click the "Program" button, and it should flash the firmware onto the board. If it gives an error, try again.

### Configure the device and RF

In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Device and RF". Then, click "Generate new RF settings", and save the file somewhere. Click the "Browse" button next to the "Layout settings file" box, and select your layout YAML file. Input your device ID, and click the program button that is next to the board you want to program. If it doesn't work, try again.

To make the layout file, see [here](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/tree/master/layouts).

### Configure the layout

In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Layout". Click the "Browse" button next to the "Layout settings file" box, and select your layout YAML file. Click the program button that is next to the board you want to program. If it doesn't work, try again.

# Keyplus CLI

## Setup instructions

TODO

## Building

Currently building of the firmware has been tested on Linux.

* [`ports/xmega/`](ports/xmega/README.md)

## Layout files

For more information about layout file format [see here](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/tree/master/layouts/README.md).

## Hardware files

For more information about the hardware [see this link](https://github.com/ahtn/keyboard_pcb/tree/master/keyplus_mini).

## License

The keyplus source code is released under the MIT software.

Although the code in this project can be used with Logitech products it is in
no way endorsed by or affiliated with Logitech.

Commit message:

Fixed package names to reflect Ubuntu repo, added pip3 dependency, and added note on MIT-SHM failure.

README.md, after:

![keyplus](https://rawgit.com/ahtn/keyplus/master/doc/imgs/keyplus_logo.svg)

[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/ahtn/keyplus.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ahtn/keyplus)

Keyplus aims to be an easy to use keyboard firmware with support for wireless
and wired split keyboards.

Currently in beta so lots of stuff still might change.

# Download

[Stable releases (recommended)](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/releases)

[Latest builds on Keyplus CI](https://ci.keyplus.io/)

# Keyplus Flasher GUI

## Setup instructions

### Windows

Just download the EXE file.

### Linux

Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus
git checkout v0.3.0
```

Next, install the packages `gcc-avr`, `avr-libc`, `binutils-avr`, `python3`, `make`, `python3-pyqt5`, and `python3-pip`. Also need `hidapi` __or__ `libhidapi-dev`.

Then, install the python dependencies:
```bash
pip3 install -U --user keyplus
```

Also, you need to initialize the git submodules:

```bash
cd keyplus
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

Now, you can run the program:

```bash
cd host-software
sudo python3 keyplus_flasher.py
```

Note: If, when you run the gui, the window is blank and the terminal shows "X Error: BadAccess (attempt to access private resource denied) 10", there is a workaround to disable the MIT-SHM module for QT. Simply start the flasher with the following command:

```bash
sudo QT_X11_NO_MITSHM=1 python3 keyplus_flasher.py
```

#### Flashing without sudo on Linux

To connect USB devices on Linux without using sudo, you need to add the
appropriate udev rules to set their permissions. To do this run the following
commands from the keyplus directory:

```
sudo cp host-software/etc/udev/rules.d/50-keyplus.rules /etc/udev/rules.d/50-keyplus.rules
sudo udevadm control --reload-rules
sudo udevadm trigger
```

You also will need to unplug and reconnect the USB device you want to use.

## Using the GUI

When starting with a new keyplus mini board, flash the latest firmware, configure the device and RF, and configure the layout, in that order.

### Flashing the firmware

Download the latest firmware from [the releases page](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/releases). In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Firmware Update". Then, click the "Browse" button and select the firmware file you downloaded. Plug in your keyplus mini (or other compatible board), and you should see it appear in the bottom box.

![The box](https://rawgit.com/ahtn/keyplus/master/doc/imgs/box.png)

Click the "Program" button, and it should flash the firmware onto the board. If it gives an error, try again.

### Configure the device and RF

In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Device and RF". Then, click "Generate new RF settings", and save the file somewhere. Click the "Browse" button next to the "Layout settings file" box, and select your layout YAML file. Input your device ID, and click the program button that is next to the board you want to program. If it doesn't work, try again.

To make the layout file, see [here](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/tree/master/layouts).

### Configure the layout

In the drop down box at the top of the window, select "Layout". Click the "Browse" button next to the "Layout settings file" box, and select your layout YAML file. Click the program button that is next to the board you want to program. If it doesn't work, try again.

# Keyplus CLI

## Setup instructions

TODO

## Building

Currently building of the firmware has been tested on Linux.

* [`ports/xmega/`](ports/xmega/README.md)

## Layout files

For more information about layout file format [see here](https://github.com/ahtn/keyplus/tree/master/layouts/README.md).

## Hardware files

For more information about the hardware [see this link](https://github.com/ahtn/keyboard_pcb/tree/master/keyplus_mini).

## License

The keyplus source code is released under the MIT software.

Although the code in this project can be used with Logitech products it is in
no way endorsed by or affiliated with Logitech.
